+++
title = "ghost cms freebsd & tips"
date = "2023-04-13"
author = "Tuan"
description = "several tips when install ghost on FreeBSD"
+++

Hi there!

I've just moved my all services to my new homelab. It's running FreeBSD 13.2.

Everything is fine with other apps. It was easy to deploy them because FreeBSD has jail and it is more understanding than docker on Linux.

FreeBSD has better networking tools btw.

## The problem came when I was trying install Ghost on FreeBSD.

Ghost was working with Sqlite3 but it can not connect to Mysql.

The email and image upload funtion was not working too.

I read the log of ghost and I found out:

### Ghost connect to database via local IP instead of hostname (localhost)

So I created a mysql user like user@192.168.x.x and grant privileges to this user on the database.

### The email uploading not working

The sharp module was not found, it required libvips to be installed too.

So I install libvips, then install sharp.

Image upload funtion is now working.

### The email is not working

I was trying config smtp in ghost config file but it was not success.

I did some research on the internet and found that ghost using outdate version of nodemailer. It has some bug with smtp service.

So read ghost source code for this function because their document does not have much info.

I found that I can use sendmail interface.

So I config ghost mail transport from Direct to Sendmail.

Then config my Sendmail/OpenSMTPD.

It's working now.